---
layout:     post
title:      "Python-twitch-stream Tutorial"
subtitle:   "A tutorial to interact with Twitch using python"
date:       2015-10-31 16:00:00
author:     "317070"
header-img: "img/post-twitch-bg.png"
published:  true
---


Make your own twitch stream using python code!

What does this tutorial cover
=============================
We will set up a program, which creates an interactive twitch stream. It will generate sound and color, and the users in the chat can request which sounds and which colors.

We will go over this from scratch.
1. First, the installation process of python-twitch-stream
2. Creating the necessary tokens to start broadcasting on Twitch
3. Setting up the example script
4. Run it on Twitch
5. ???
6. Profit!

The example handled here is very basic, but the possibilities are endless. From interactive media art over "Twitch plays X" to Twitch riding your roomba around the house.
Using python for interfacing opens a whole new world of possibilities! I wrote this library for my art/science piece "LSD Neural Network", which received critical acclaim from international press.

Prerequisites
=============
I'll assume you:
1. have a computer running Ubuntu (or some Debian linux distribution),
2. know how to code in python,
3. have some experience with numpy,
4. have some familiarity with the terminal,
5. have some familiarity with Twitch.

Installing python-twitch-stream
===============================
Installing python-twitch-stream is easy. First, you need to install the library:

> sudo pip install python-twitch-stream

Next, you will also need a recent version of ffmpeg (this was written in october 2015).

> sudo add-apt-repository ppa:mc3man/trusty-media
> sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install ffmpeg

That's it, you're good to go. More details [here](http://python-twitch-stream.readthedocs.org/en/latest/).


Getting the tokens
==================
Next, you are going to need some tokens from Twitch before they allow your computer to access there servers.

1. [Create an account on Twitch](https://passport.twitch.tv/users/new)
2. Get your streaming key. Log into your Twitch account, and go to [here](http://www.twitch.tv/youruser/dashboard/streamkey) where you will find your streaming key. Keep this with you, you will need it later on.
3. Get your oauth key. You'll need this to access the chat. For this, go [here](https://twitchapps.com/tmi/). Allow it to have access to your account and generate an oauth key. Keep it close, you are going to need it.


The code
========

A first version
---------------

Let us start of simple, with a small script which just sends some basic (noise) video stream to Twitch. The code is as follows:

	from __future__ import print_function
	from twitchstream.outputvideo import TwitchBufferedOutputStream
	import argparse
	import numpy as np

	if __name__ == "__main__":
	    parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(description=__doc__)
	    required = parser.add_argument_group('required arguments')
	    required.add_argument('-s', '--streamkey',
		                  help='twitch streamkey',
		                  required=True)
	    args = parser.parse_args()

	    with TwitchBufferedOutputStream(
		    twitch_stream_key=args.streamkey,
		    width=640,
		    height=480,
		    fps=30.,
		    verbose=True) as videostream:

		frame = np.zeros((480, 640, 3))

		while True:
		    if videostream.get_video_frame_buffer_state() < 30:
		        frame = np.random.rand(480, 640, 3)
		        videostream.send_video_frame(frame)







